---
layout: post
title: iDZ-2025 - Project Milestone Meeting in Bensheim
date: 2024-06-14 09:56:00-0400
description: Press Release from Innomatik AG
tags: Industry4.0 DigitalTwins Photorealistic Interactive
categories:
giscus_comments: false
related_posts: false
related_publications: 
thumbnail: assets/img/innomatik.jpg
---
<hr>
On June 12, 2024, a meeting on the first milestones of the joint research project "iDZ-2025" took place at [Framence GmbH](https://www.framence.com/de/) / [Innomatik AG](https://www.innomatik.com/) in Bensheim. Below, you will find the press release from Innomatik AG, translated into English.

---

<center><h3><b>Innomatik Achieves First Milestones in Digital Twin Project with Nuremberg Institute of Technology Georg Simon Ohm</b></h3></center>
<br>
<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        <div class="text-center">
            {% include figure.html path="assets/img/speedikon_Pressemitteilung_Bild_TH_Nuernberg_Projekt_iDZ_2025.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
            <center>(Image source: Innomatik)</center>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>
<br>
<p style="text-align: justify;"><b>Bensheim, June 12, 2024</b> – Digitalization and automation are fundamentally transforming businesses. In the context of "Industry 4.0," digital twins are crucial for accessing relevant information on a central platform. This is especially important in the construction industry and facility management, where an accurate representation of physical reality is essential. It enables high-quality and effective interactive applications such as construction reality checks, maintenance, inventory documentation, and safety inspections.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">Therefore, the consulting and technology company Innomatik AG, in collaboration with Nuremberg Institute of Technology Georg Simon Ohm, has been implementing the iDZ – 2025 project, supported by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research's KMU-innovative funding initiative, for over a year. The project focuses on developing new technologies for generating and rendering extensive and XR-compatible, photorealistic digital twins. These cannot be cost-effectively achieved with current methods like 3D laser scanning.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">Among the project's first milestones is the completion of the development of basic technology processes for new, modern rendering methods. The Nuremberg Institute of Technology Georg Simon Ohm contributes extensive research experience, while Innomatik AG, active in the field of disruptive technologies, ensures practical relevance and applicability in the industry.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><i>"The insights into Innomatik AG's innovative software solutions provide a valuable basis for new scientific impulses. We look forward to continuing our cooperation and the associated potential for research and development of cutting-edge technologies in the field of digital twins,"</i> says Prof. Dr. Bartosz von Rymon Lipinski, Professor of Media Informatics, TH Nürnberg.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">The next step is the development of intelligent capturing processes to generate the novel digital twins even more simply and accurately.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">Another focus is on developing applications in the area of Mixed Reality (MR), initially focusing on Augmented Reality (AR). The goal is to seamlessly transfer information from the digital world to the real one, making it effectively usable on-site.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><i>"The collaboration with the Nuremberg Institute of Technology Georg Simon Ohm has enabled us to remain at the forefront of digital twin development. We are very proud of our team, which has already achieved these significant milestones,"</i> says Dr. Alexandra Merkel, CTO of Innomatik AG.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">(You can find the original press release <a href="https://www.innomatik.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/Innomatik-praesentiert-Projektfortschritt-iDZ-2025.pdf">here</a>.)</p>

